this is democracy now democracynow.org
the war and peace report
I'm Amy Goodman today we spend our
second hour with acclaim filmmaker
Michael Moore last Thursday during an
interview with Michael on Democracy Now
he predicted Donald Trump would win
reelection if Democrats fail to choose a
candidate who excites their base of
voters I think if the election were held
today Hillary won by three million
popular votes
I believe whoever the Democrat is next
year is going to win by four to five
million popular votes there's no
question in my mind that people who
stayed on lose sat on the bench they're
gonna pour out in California New York
and you know but also in Texas and
whatever I mean places that Trump will
probably win but yeah there's gonna be a
much higher percentage of people voting
against them the the problem is is that
he will if the vote were today I believe
he would win the electoral states that
he would need because living out there I
will tell you his level of support has
not gone down one inch in fact I'd say
it's even more rabid than it was before
because they're afraid now they're
afraid he could lose because they
watched his behavior so they are they
are they are voracious in their appetite
for Donald Trump that's that's the bad
news
so that was Michael Moore on Democracy
Now on Thursday President Trump then
tweeted his response to the show saying
quote he made same prediction in 2016
nobody ever said Michael was stupid but
Michael Moore said more this was the
rest of his comment the good news is
again number one never forget there's
more of us than there are of them the
majority of the American people agree
with us seventy percent of the voters
next year are women people of color and
young adults okay all that on our side
so what we have to do is we have to make
sure we don't give them another Hillary
Clinton to vote for so that was Michael
Moore speaking on Democracy Now on
Thursday in getting that response from
President Trump today we play part two
of our interview with Michael Moore the
oscar-winning filmmaker his most recent
talking
three Fahrenheit eleven nine his other
films include Michael Morin Trump Len
Fahrenheit 9/11 Bowling for Columbine
sicko capitalism a love story where to
invade next and Roger and me
he's just launched a new project a
podcast called Rumble with Michael Moore
well Democracy Now sneer means shake and
I spoke to Michael in our studio last
week about a number of key issues in the
twenty twenty presidential campaign gun
control climate and race I started by
asking about the Democratic presidential
debate in Los Angeles earlier this month
when PBS moderator
I'm not Nawaz asked businessman Andrew
yang about the being the only candidate
of color on the debate stage then asked
Bernie Sanders the same question I want
to get back to issues of climate change
for a moment because I do believe this
is the existential issue senator with
all respect this question is about race
can you answer the question as it
[Applause]
in fact I've gotta BD people suffering
most if we do not deal with climate
change we have an obligation up here if
there are not any of our
african-american brothers and sisters up
here to speak about an economy in which
African Americans are exploited where
black women die three times at higher
rates than white women where we have a
criminal justice system which is racist
and broken disproportionately made up of
african-americans and Latinos and Native
Americans who are in jail so we need an
economy that focuses on the needs of
oppress exploited people and that is the
African American community so that's
Bernie Sanders responding to the PBS
moderator the first Muslim American
moderator a debate that was in the Los
Angeles Democratic presidential debate
that had one person of color laugh
although there are a few more that are
in the presidential primaries Cory
Booker and Hulan Castro Michael Moore
well first of all I know Bernie so he
didn't get to finish his climate change
thing from before and he is like a dog
with a bone with it with an issue so he
wanted to finish his climate change and
he wasn't listening to what was the new
the new question but that's Bernie he's
like this is the thing that's going to
kill all of us and I have to finish what
I was in my last sentence of what I was
going to say about this I understand
that but this is I thought that's a good
it's a good it's a teachable moment that
but of course she was also pointing a
vault to a vulnerability on his part
which is how much support he has in the
african-american community well he
hasn't the poll last week shows that
Bernie Sanders is now polling at number
one he has more voters in favor of him
non-white voters than any of the other
candidates he's number one the polls
with black Hispanic and
Native American and Asian voters that's
just the truth the majority of people of
color in the polls so far want Bernie
Sanders he's been number one with with
the Hispanic vote since the beginning
that I don't think he's ever not been
there's not been a poll this year where
he hasn't been number one so so it's you
know it's done a little watch that I
mean it was but I unders
doesn't anybody have a grandparent I
mean seriously
once they they've got to finish their
thought it didn't get the finish this
thought and he was gonna finish his
thought and that's who you want you want
that person in that debate with Trump
even though I don't think Trump will do
a debate I think he'll refuse to debate
that's my my gut feeling all the
candidates are if it was Bernie said oh
you don't know
I think he'll turn no he'll try to he'll
try to avoid the debates he does not
want certain he doesn't control the
microphone at the debate like at the
rally so and because you see we still
are thinking oh it's normal so there's
gonna be debate
Elizabeth Warren she's gonna kill him in
the debate and I said bill you know it's
not gonna be a debate is it you're the
same people were thinking we're gonna
we're gonna get the tax returns he was
never gonna give the tax returns he's
still not giving the tax returns and
it's court it's not gonna make them do
they give the tax returns so would stop
thinking like it's normal even we still
do that it's not normal things will not
be that way and you know I think I just
we need a fighter like that and we need
somebody who cannot will not be diverted
he was not done with his sentence of
climate change and that's what he that's
what he was focused on what can I just
ask you though Micah I mean a lot of
people are now suspicious of polls for
obvious reasons following 2016 what
about the fact so first of all we don't
know if how reliable those polls will be
especially a year from now for almost a
year from now and also the fact that a
lot of center
Democrats think that Sanders is far too
left-wing and that a Democratic
Socialist could never be the President
of the United States what those centrist
Democrats are really saying is they
think the American public is far too
left-wing because if again it's not just
one poll it's every poll shows that the
majority of Americans believe women
should have control over their
reproductive system not men not the
government Nolan Catholic when you're
including Catholics that's all Democrats
would say that every Democratic
presidential candidate well yes and they
would all say that we need a raise in
the minimum wage that mass incarceration
is an issue etc etc but but just do a
gut check who do you believe will
actually not relent not compromise right
away we were so happy to get Barack
Obama elected he appoints Larry Summers
and Timothy Geithner to run our economy
Larry Summers from Goldman Sachs
Geithner was that of the New York Fed
they're part of the problem he appoints
these two guys to run our treasurer in
our economy that was like such I
couldn't believe it and it was like
thing and then he had for two years we
had the majority of the House and the
Senate and we could have gotten a lot
done but he wanted to go slow he wanted
to compromise with Republicans he wanted
to kumbaya this thing and look what look
what happened he got one thing through
Obamacare a half-measure not what we
really need not true health care true
universal health care fifty million have
been uninsured before Obamacare they
brag about how now there's 20 million
more they have health insurance
well there's thirty more million that
don't still with Obama care so look I
love Barack Obama but as I showed my
last film he came to Flint and drank the
water generally I have not been doing
stunts here but you know
and this used a filter you know the
water around this table you know was
plant water that was filtered that's
Barack Obama that's protecting that
glass of law is making it and telling
people it's okay to drink the poisoned
water and it was a knife through the
heart of especially the african-american
community in Flint nobody could believe
it now they're not gonna criticize him
publicly we're not gonna certain that
kind of go for Trump deeply thankful he
came to fund yes and then hopeful that
he was gonna have the Army Corps of
Engineers coming and dig up the pipes
and get rid of these awful the awful
situation instead this is May this is
May of sixteen of course we're talking
about your city yes more Flint Michigan
yes and people left that gymnasium that
day and I knew what was gonna happen and
what is what happened in Flint later a
few months later at the election eight
thousand roughly African Americans who
had voted for twice for Obama in oh
eight and twelve stayed home eight
thousand she lost the state the whole
state by ten thousand Hillary Hillary
they even had their last one of their
last debates there didn't they in Flint
that's the other thing that doesn't get
discussed like how could she lose
Michigan how why did why did
african-americans refuse to support her
because all we've heard for how many
decades oh the black people love the
Clintons you know remember that old
lawful thing he playing him the sax on
Arsenio and then people saying he was
our first black president he remember
that that was like so I was just always
sounded so offensive and and and the
truth was is at the debate in Flint
between Hillary and Bernie sewn at CNN
gave Hillary the questions in advance so
she would know what the question though
so here you have Dinah virzal right
Donna Brazile here you have these these
there was a group of mothers at the
microphone in white auditorium in Flint
two
ask Hillary and Bernie about the water
situation and not knowing that Hillary
already knew they were gonna ask this
question or two Bernie didn't know
Hillary knew a month later when it was
revealed that Hillary had their
questions before they asked them the
women at that microphone went on TV look
they said they felt like they were used
like props by the Democrats but by by
the Hillary campaign and was so
offensive again to the community to the
larger community but also to especially
to the black community in Flint that
that is just what just more of the same
works well of course they take us for
granted we're gonna vote from the
Democrat now we're used as props in a
nationwide debate where was rigged where
that one of the candidates knew the
questions to a town and to a group of
people who have been so abused and
suffered for decades down and now I've
been put through me poisoning we're all
children under the age of six because if
you drink lead at that age you have
permanent lifetime brain damage there's
no medicine there's no cure there's
nothing nothing that can be done to help
them
all of these women in these these
parents children have been poisoned and
to be treated that way by the Hillary
campaign I know some people watch this
role we ask but you had to vote you had
to vote you had to stop Trump there
comes a time when the boot has been on
your neck for so long you can't breathe
and you have decided I'm tapped out I'm
out I'm not voting for any of these
people anymore and and that's what not
just a slump at a Detroit in Milwaukee
in Wisconsin in Philly in Pennsylvania
that's acclaimed filmmaker Michael Moore
in the latest us election news Politico
is reporting Democratic Party officials
and insiders including Hillary Clinton
allies
now say it's possible Vermont senator
Bernie Sanders might win the party's
presidential nomination party insiders
had largely written off Sanders campaign
but in recent weeks some of reconsider
de stances as Sanders continues to rise
in the polls while candidates like
Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren
have dropped a national and state
surveys Democratic California State
Senator Scott Weiner
told POLITICO Sanders has been quote
more resilient than I anticipated he has
a very very loyal following and people
have really stuck with him unquote as we
continue our conversation with a Claim
filmmaker Michael Moore about the
Democratic debates the 2020 elections
and more Michael Moore explained to
Democracy Now sneer means shake and I
what he means when he refers to the
working-class voters in Michigan
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania key states
Trump won in the 2016 election the real
reason the whole press has got this
wrong about the reason we lost these
three states that's gave Trump the
victory was because we lost lunch bucket
Joe you know the old angry white guy you
know working-class and it's all it
starts right there it's the why is by
calling that the working-class and then
we're supposed to imagine that's what
working-class is the that's a lie the
majority of the working class in this
country are women the majority are of
color and them and they are young the
young 82 35 are paid the least amount of
money of any age group the women are
still paid much less than men and of
course the fear of color you know you
already know this you've been on the
bottom of the economic ladder forever so
none of this should be a surprise but
when you hear working-class for now and
I beg people the image I want in your
head is not you know angry factory guy
coming out of work I want you to think
that it's a 35 year old black woman that
is the average working-class person in
this country it is a person of color it
is a woman and it that person is young
and
these are that is the base that is the
way to win the election but they aren't
going to go for it anymore if you're
just the same old same old you know how
could Trump get 53% of the white female
vote I mean yeah it's only because
enough of poor other white voters women
just said it's this isn't for me
this is affect my life the largest party
in America is the non voter party it's
over 100 million strong and all we need
are a few million of them to have a
sense that you don't want this candidate
is gonna fight for me this candidate is
not gonna sell out look at all that look
at all the Democrats on that station let
me tell you there's something I can say
something good about every one of them
but tell me tell me the one point out
the one who will never sell out who will
never cave in who will fight all the way
I think that's Bernie well let's go back
to the Democratic presidential debate in
Los Angeles last week one of the most
heated exchanges of the evening came
when senator Elizabeth Warren criticized
mayor Pete Budaj for holding a
closed-door fundraiser in what she
called a wine cave mayor just recently
had a fundraiser that was held in a wine
cave full of crystals and served $900 a
bottle wine think about who comes to
that according to Forbes magazine
I am the literally the only person on
this stage who's not a millionaire or a
billionaire
this is the problem with issuing purity
tests you cannot yourself pass I do not
sell access to my time
I don't do call time millionaires and
billionaires meet I don't meet behind
closed doors with big dollar donors and
look I've taken one that ought to be an
easy step for everyone here I said to
anyone who wants to donate to me if you
want to donate to me that's fine but
don't come around later expecting to be
named ambassador senator your
presidential campaign right now as we
speak
is funded in part by money you
transferred having raised it at those
exact same big-ticket fundraisers you
now denounced did it corrupt you senator
of course not so that's from last week's
democratic president presidential debate
in Los Angeles mayor Pete Buddha judge
and senator Elizabeth Warren your
response the wine cave I was just saying
while we were listening to that that the
Oxford Dictionary only picked the word
of the year and they probably already
have done it for 2019 but I really think
wine cave should be should be the word
of the year it's probably two words but
I would you know just mash it into one
well good for her for calling him out on
it
you know I'm very disappointed in mayor
the mayor of South Bend Indiana and the
things that I've heard him say and how
he's now trying to he's trying to be the
centrist candidate but there's there's
we could do another show on just him and
and South Bend South Bend city limits
essentially almost a but by like a half
a mile from the borderline of the state
of Michigan so we all know we all know
South Bend it's also the home of Notre
Dame one of the most conservative
colleges in America but he was also
right to point out some of the things
too about her that that she has come
come late to some things as I said she
voted for Republicans and and I know why
she's saying that she says this every
time that two or three brothers are
Republicans I believe
two of her kids they voted Republican if
you're trying to convince Republicans to
vote for you and your Elizabeth Warren
your way to the left too far to the left
for Republicans are not going to vote
for you focus on the base focus on the
non-voters the have-nots of our society
they can vote and they will vote for you
and I'll tell you what we did in
Michigan between the 16 election and the
off-year election last year on 18 we
threw Republicans out but we came out at
my friends and I and others decided
after we lost is hugely embarrassing the
Michigan would go you know read I mean I
can't even tell you the level of
humiliations that that caused there's
something funny is calling Michigan red
yes right yes not right it's just not
right all right the the the the home of
the the labor movement and everything
that that Michigan has given the world
Michael is this the new red-baiting well
it's it's funny because they take it
from Tim Russert in the 2000 that night
where he had the the liberal or Gore
states in red I'm sorry in a blue and
the Republicans in red so for anybody
our age or older it's very funny to
think that the Republicans are Reds but
but it I think that was good they should
mix it up a little bit people shouldn't
be afraid of having the debate Democrats
getting nervous
oh no don't attack each other it's not
an attack it's a legitimate discussion
about where's your money coming from and
I think that we should know that they
should talk about it and and people
shouldn't be afraid look I think
everybody probably not I mean there's
probably people watching the show that
are gonna vote Green Party no matter
what there are people watching the show
that our anarchists have just given up
on the whole thing and aren't gonna vote
for anybody but I think the most the
people I know are gonna vote for whoever
as the d by their name next year you
know of these remaining candidates like
you said they all pretty much kind of
support the same thing there's a there
you know George Wallace is not on the
stage so it so I think that people
shouldn't be nervous people are gonna
vote for the Democrat more people voted
what I was saying about last November in
the off year we decided that we that
stop relying on candidates to get the
vote out
politicians doesn't work a lot
especially with Democrats well let's get
ballot proposals on so we got two ballot
proposals on the ballot last November 1
to legalize marijuana and I mean really
legalize it and number two we to make
voter suppression and gerrymandering a
crime and put it in the Constitution
both passed by around 60% in Michigan in
Michigan in the state that voted for
Trump both passed now what did that do
putting those sign the marijuana ballot
proposal we had the larger we had we
almost doubled the turnout of the youth
vote from the last off-year election in
2014 because of that bla proposal and
African Americans who had stayed away
from Hillary stay away from the the
ballot box or left the top box blank
they came out and voted to make
gerrymandering and voter suppression a
crime they filled the chance to actually
make a law make it part of the
Constitution you're gonna show up that's
what happened and because such a large
number of African Americans and young
people showed up to vote we had a
Republican governor we had a Republican
lieutenant governor we had a Republican
secretary state we had a Republican
Attorney General and they were all
booted no Republicans allowed in any and
who did were they replaced with a woman
governor a black lieutenant governor a
lesbian Attorney General and a single
mom to be Secretary of State no white
guys at all in the top government of
Lansing Michigan and we threw out two
Republican members of Congress in
suburban Detroit the ones up there who
you know represent lunch bucket Joe we
threw them out and replace them with
Democrat women democratic women and I
saw how if if we do these things like
Bella proposed whatever we can really
affect change and
have a good outcome next November
Michael I want to ask you about primary
caucus order and ask if you think this
is important last month I had the chance
to Co moderate a presidential forum on
environmental justice at South Carolina
State in Orangeburg with Mustafa
Santiago Ali who is the vice president
of the National Wildlife Federation you
were talking about you know the two
first caucus primary States Iowa and New
Hampshire and why they're determining so
much of the outcome I asked the question
to Senator Elizabeth Warren
speaking about racial injustice do you
think the order of the primary state
should change you have Iowa and New
Hampshire two of the whitest states in
the country and then we moved to South
Carolina with a very significant
population of people of color and it
means the candidates spend so much of
their time catering to those first two
states overall do you think that should
change I'm just a player in the game on
this one I'm just a player in the game
senator Warren said now again you have
these two states Iowa New Hampshire it's
not only it's not as if tomorrow's I
when the next news New Hampshire in the
next day South Carolina so you have a
little more so you have 24 hours to run
in those states it's now expanded the
pre primary season to like two years we
then interviewed the head of the
Democratic Party of Texas who said that
he's been trying to get these candidates
to a forum in Texas one of the largest
states in the country and they all say
we can't we're doing Iowa he said could
you imagine if we took the same number
of people of the population of Iowa the
Rio Grande Valley and for two years the
candidates went up and down this largely
Latino area and they just every single
town village hamlet and water fountain
they stood by he said the whole country
would be in an uproar he can't get
people to Texas these presidential
candidates what do you say about the
president about the primary order and
whether in fact it's leading to what we
have now now you have the presidential
debate
one person of color is left Andrew yang
in the last presidential debate
I think people of color know that the
Democratic Party has talked a good line
has occasionally done good things but
they know that the loyalties of the
Democratic Party ultimately are going to
be for whatever the status quo is
whether that's racially whether that's
to the the people who have money who
fund campaigns etc and I'm still sitting
there still a little disappointed in
Elizabeth Warren that that was her
answer the answer was and just if you
can for a moment imagine what Bernie's
answer would be he wouldn't be sitting
there thinking I can't I can't upset the
people in New Hampshire or Iowa he would
have said it just said it no it's wrong
it's absolutely wrong those two states
do not represent what this country
really looks like the fact that it's
still going on after all this time I
hope this is the last time that that
this happens where it starts with those
with those two states the fact that
you're the person you mentioned from
Texas can't get these Democrats to come
to Texas I mean that's stunning as I was
as I was pointing out how you know the
demographic is changing this will not be
a white majority country in the 2040s we
already have four states now that are
not white we already have four states
that are not white obvious ones like
Hawaii New Mexico the the giveaway the
clue is in the name New Mexico
but California's recently in Texas Texas
is 57% not white in California and in
California just in the last month or two
the demographic is it's like 5149
something like three it's close but it's
it is up until this year been about
50/50 but now it's not but 57% Texas
it's one of our largest non-white states
why is it ignored why why is it
republican dominated you know between
the 57% that are
that are Latino and and black then add
in all the white women this should be a
democratic state hands down what's going
on here
I mean it throw in the throw in the 18
to 35 year-old white males again you got
even then a larger pot you're dealing
with here this is it's it's wrong it's
it's racially wrong and I hope it
changes but but you know when bernie's
elected and we have we have a chair of
the DNC should be a co-chair by the way
should be it should be a man and a woman
co-chairing the DNC and and they should
they should you know Howard Dean
mentioned this years ago about a
50-state strategy and it sounded crazy
and and yet it really is the way to go
there's we should leave no stay behind
in this and and you know this should
change how is it that the order of the
primaries and caucuses was decided in
the first place
you know I don't think any thought
really went into it I just think the
state legislature in New Hampshire set
an early date I used to think when I was
a kid I think wow that's kind of a cruel
joke to make the candidates come in
campaign in January in New Hampshire
we'll see how tough they are right but
then I will gotten involved in the eight
other primary they have a caucus and and
but you know I think that why did
anything get started if it benefits
white people it's a good thing you know
they're not gonna like you said they're
not going to go down to a place where
there are too many people that don't
have this skin that's just that's just
been foreboding for a long time and now
it's probably more rigid with some
people because because white people are
not comfortable with the fact that that
they're going to lose power in their
lifetime and and so they're there
doing whatever they can to kind of try
to keep it going as we continue our
conversation with the acclaimed
filmmaker Michael Moore this is a
trailer of this 2002 film Bowling for
Columbine for which he won the Academy
Award for Best Documentary Feature he's
Michael Moore America's favorite
whistleblower the man in everyone's face
the guy asking the question are we a
nation of gun nuts or just plain us name
was I've been kind of like an eagle
thing there you don't know that I was
number one it
here's my first question it's a little
dangerous handing out guns in a bank now
he's taking aim at America's most
controversial subject the town of virgin
Utah has passed the law requiring all
residents to own this is a great place
to raise your children there has been a
terrible shooting after Columbine no one
could figure out why the boy had
resorted to violence presents the
sensation of the 2002 Cannes Film
Festival and the only film to win a
unanimous jury prize and Moses himself
maybe I could talk to you about honest
critics are calling it scathing
incendiary hilarious and provocative our
children it turned into little monsters
but who was to blame here were the
suspects doing the morning of attack I
heard that they were bowling
why wasn't anyone blaming Boeing for
warping their minds a movie that will
have you up in arms
so that's your 2002 documentary Bowling
for Columbine but speaking of guns the
Senate recently passed a 1.4 trillion
dollar spending package to avoid a
government shutdown the package includes
a 738 billion dollar defense bill one of
the most expensive military Bills in US
history the spending package also
includes 1.4 billion dollars for Trump's
border wall and allocates 25 million
dollars for gun violence research for
the first time in twenty years Michael
well that last part is good because the
NRA has fought and kept Congress from
approving any money to study why we have
this epidemic it is an epidemic no other
countries like this there are not better
than us the Canadians have the same 23
chromosomes and every cell that we have
why don't they shoot each other at the
rate that we shoot each other they have
a lot of guns by the way it's a big
country wonderful so there are guns they
don't kill each other it should be it
should have been studied a long time ago
you know and sometimes it's the simplest
things I because first of all of these
mass shootings in schools they don't
happen in the inner cities do they they
don't happen in the inner city schools
they happen in rural and suburban
communities by and large when that when
the night that they got the gunman was
atop the hotel in Las Vegas
frying essentially machine-gun fire on a
crowd of 20,000 people
CNN broke in I was watching okay I was
watching Anthony Bourdain you know I
sometimes I not you know I I wish I
cooked but I don't so I can mmm
watch it on TV having said that CNN
breaks in breaking news we believe
there's a gunman I'm one of the top
floors of the hotel and I thought first
thought was how do you know it's a man
why'd you say gunman of course I'm being
facetious of course it's a gunman there
we already know without finding out
who's doing this
no woman is up there with a machine gun
spraying bullets on a crowd of 20,000
people I
to study that I like to find out why
that is because clearly we are safe from
51% of the population they will not jump
out on the street and shoot you and when
they do whenever it like 11 o'clock news
here in New York you know if it comes on
that a woman is shot a guy you know your
first thought is wool what did he do you
know I mean it's also overwhelmingly a
white man it's overwhelmingly white men
white young men that are doing these
these mass shootings and that should be
studied so that's a good thing but all
the other things you mentioned more
money for the military wrong the author
of that bill they created the space
force oh yes the space force are you
friggin kidding me mm-hmm and the
Democrats went along with that man okay
that's another show Donald Trump now
President Trump but what like more than
ten years ago was talking about the
impeachment of Clinton and said you know
this is ridiculous but said it's Bush
who should be impeached for the Iraq war
yes I am I was guy I I did this I should
prior say this publicly but I I think
it's I think it's a maybe it's because I
was raised by Jesuits who are always you
know questioning things and I so one day
I thought you know what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna I think the way we defeat our
enemy is not by going ooh boo enemy you
know it's like understanding them
learning about them and even embracing
them in the way in the way that in the
famous movie George see Scott playing
General Patton after he defeats Rommel
and then screams had them I read your
book
you know and everybody was asking why
are you reading we're on those book ooh
Nazi yeah all I want to understand him
oh I don't understand him yes you do
because you want to defeat him
so I thought you know what be a good
exercise maybe we can all do this at
home now hear that this show is almost
over
get out a piece of paper or your device
and make a list of the things that you
actually like about Donald J Trump oh no
I don't like anything yes you do it's
you because you need to understand
why some people are voting for him I'm
gonna talk about the racists I'm not how
about the you know baby 50% of his vote
is a racial at least a racial vote but
I'm talking about those things like you
just said that he came out and spoke out
against the Iraq war he said Bush should
have been impeached for the Iraq war you
know all that or think of the times that
he's told the truth well you know we
focus on his 15,000 lies or whatever
only 23 I stopped counting but when he
said I could shoot somebody in the
middle of Fifth Avenue and get away with
it he is telling you the truth and and
so make a little list of the
truth-telling moments when we didn't
like what he was saying or we thought it
was being a buffoon but actually he was
trying to signal to us the truth his
truth of what he was really going to do
what he really stands for what he really
believes in and I'm gonna publish this
right now that now that you've got to
have said this publicly I'm gonna
publish this little list I made because
it's quite telling in terms of why I
know people say I don't want to watch
him rallies and all this but you almost
have to look like a train wreck you
can't take your eyes off it and then you
and and he's gotten so good at his
performance art because that's what he
is he's a performance artist doesn't
believe in anything first time I ran
into him when I moved to New York back
in the 90s was that a Planned Parenthood
fundraiser okay I mean he hung around
with Democrats he gave money I'm telling
you this guy he doesn't believe in
Democrats or Republicans he believes in
Donald J Trump he is the ultimate
narcissist but it's I think it's really
important to try and figure him out and
and in that way that will defeat him
don't avoid him I know it's painful
[Music]
try to connect with those because we
need any time if you've ever laughed
it's something that could add a trump
joke you know your ear a collaborator
because and you can't help it because
sometimes he's funny sometimes he does
them he does weird Mike drops he walks
away from the microphone now and he
prances
age and it's like oh my god you know I
mean it's that funny as in he's got a
great sense of humor it's but it you
can't help but laugh and this is no
laughing matter
acclaimed filmmaker Michael Moore he's
hosting a new podcast it's called Rumble
with Michael Moore you can watch the
first hour of her interview at
democracynow.org also tune in to our New
Year's Day special Wednesday this coming
year twenty twenty marks the 100th
anniversary of the 19th amendment which
guarantees women the right to vote we
begin the new decade with our hour-long
special about one of the most
influential women in US politics First
Lady Eleanor Roosevelt after the death
of her husband President Franklin
Roosevelt she spearheaded the UN
Declaration of Human Rights President
Harry Truman called her the first lady
of the world and in case you missed it
go to Democracy Now for our remembrance
of Toni Morrison this is Oprah Winfrey
reading Toni Morrison's words ain't you
see we got a home right here in this
rock don't you see we got a home in this
rock and if I got a home you got one too
so grab it grab this land take this land
hold this land my brothers ain't nobody
crying in my home I want you to take
this land make it my brothers shake it
squeeze it
turn it twist it beat it kick it kiss it
flip it stop it dig it plow it seed it
ribbit-ribbit buy it sell it on it build
it multiply it and pass it on you hear
me
[Applause]
Thank You Oprah Winfrey reading the
words of Tony Morrison you can watch the
full Toni Morrison remembrance at
democracynow.org I'm Amy Goodman thanks
so much for joining us
you